1. Define a singleton class in java?
🔹 Ways to Define a Singleton Class in Java
1. Eager Initialization (Simple & Thread-safe)
public class Singleton {
    // create instance at class loading time
    private static final Singleton instance = new Singleton();

    // private constructor prevents instantiation
    private Singleton() {}

    public static Singleton getInstance() {
        return instance;
    }
}

✅ Thread-safe
❌ Instance created even if never used (not memory efficient).

How it works:

Class Loading
When the JVM loads the Singleton class, it creates the static field instance once.
So only one object of Singleton is created during class loading.
Private Constructor
The private Singleton() prevents anyone outside the class from calling new Singleton().
So you cannot create another object manually.
Global Access via getInstance()
Every call to Singleton.getInstance() returns the same pre-created object reference.

Purpose of final here:
Ensures immutability of the reference
final means the variable instance cannot be reassigned to another object after it’s initialized.

Example (not possible here):instance = new Singleton();  // ❌ compilation error
This guarantees that there will always be exactly one reference pointing to that unique object.

Thread-safety with eager initialization
Since it’s initialized when the class is loaded, and final ensures it never changes, there’s no risk of different threads seeing different objects.

Strict Singleton contract
A singleton’s core idea is only one instance.
Without final, someone might accidentally (inside the class itself) reassign instance, breaking the pattern.

Key Point:
final protects the reference (you can’t point it to another object).
It doesn’t make the object itself immutable (the internal state of the Singleton can still change if it has setters or mutable fields).

✅ So in your example, final ensures the instance variable always points to the same single object, preserving the Singleton guarantee.

4. Double-Checked Locking (Best Practice)
public class Singleton {
    private static volatile Singleton instance;

    private Singleton() {}

    public static Singleton getInstance() {
        if (instance == null) {                // 1st check
            synchronized (Singleton.class) {
                if (instance == null) {        // 2nd check
                    instance = new Singleton();
                }
            }
        }
        return instance;
    }
}

🔑 Problem Without volatile
When you write:
instance = new Singleton4();

This is not a single atomic action. The JVM can split it into 3 steps (called instruction reordering for performance reasons):
Allocate memory for the object.
Assign the reference to instance.
Initialize the object (call constructor).
👉 Due to reordering, steps 2 and 3 can switch places.

So another thread could see instance as non-null (step 2 done), but the object might not be fully constructed yet (step 3 not done).
If that happens, the thread would get a partially initialized object → very dangerous bug.

🛠 Role of volatile
Declaring:
private static volatile Singleton4 instance;
does two things:
Prevents instruction reordering
Ensures that when one thread writes to instance, the constructor fully finishes before any other thread sees the reference.
Ensures visibility across threads
If one thread sets instance, other threads will immediately see the updated value (no stale cache).

🔄 How Double-Checked Locking Works Here
First check (if (instance == null))
Fast path, avoids synchronization overhead after the object is initialized.
Synchronized block
Only one thread enters here at a time.
Second check (if (instance == null))
Needed because multiple threads may pass the first check simultaneously, but only the first should create the instance.
volatile ensures that:
No half-baked object escapes.
Correctly published instance is visible to all threads.

✅ Without volatile, the pattern is broken and can lead to hard-to-reproduce bugs.
✅ With volatile, it becomes thread-safe and efficient (sync only on the first call).

When you write:
instance = new Singleton4();
It looks like a single action in Java, but under the hood the JVM + CPU actually breaks it into 3 low-level steps:
The 3 steps
- Allocate memory
Reserve a block of memory big enough to hold a Singleton4 object.
Let’s call that address 0xABC.
- Assign the reference
Store the memory address (0xABC) into the variable instance.
Now instance is non-null (it points to that memory).
⚠️ At this moment, the constructor has not run yet, so the object’s fields may contain garbage/default values.
- Initialize the object
Actually run the Singleton4() constructor to initialize fields and set up the object properly.

The Danger
Because of instruction reordering (done by compilers or CPUs to optimize performance), steps 2 and 3 can swap.
So the sequence could become:
Allocate memory (0xABC)
Assign instance = 0xABC (instance is now non-null)
Run constructor

What another thread sees
Imagine Thread A is in the middle of new Singleton4() and Thread B calls getInstance():
Thread B checks if (instance == null).
Sees instance is non-null (step 2 already done).
Returns that reference.
But the constructor (step 3) hasn’t run yet → Thread B gets a half-initialized object. 🚨

How volatile fixes it
volatile tells the JVM:
Don’t reorder the assignment and constructor.
Flush writes to main memory immediately.
Reads always see the latest value from main memory.

So with volatile, the order is guaranteed:
Allocate → Initialize → Assign reference

🔹 Interview One-Liner
“Singleton is a design pattern ensuring only one instance of a class exists.
The best modern way in Java is using Enum or Bill Pugh static inner class.
For explicit control, we use double-checked locking with a volatile instance.”

🔑 Why Enum Singleton works
Normally with Singleton classes, you worry about:
Thread safety (multiple threads creating multiple objects).
Serialization (when deserialized, you might accidentally get new objects).
Reflection (bypassing private constructor).
But Enums in Java automatically handle these issues:
- Thread-safe initialization
The JVM guarantees that enum constants are created once per JVM, in a thread-safe way.
- Serialization-safe
Enum constants are handled specially by the JVM; deserialization never creates a new instance, it always returns the same constant.
- Reflection-safe
You cannot create enum instances via reflection (constructor is blocked).
So enum gives you a singleton for free — no volatile, no synchronized, no extra boilerplate.

🔒 Bonus Proof: Serialization-safe
If you serialize and deserialize Singleton.INSTANCE, you still get the same instance, unlike normal singletons where deserialization can break the pattern.

🔒 Why this works
Normally, a Serializable class can create new objects when deserialized.
With enums, the JVM ensures the constant (INSTANCE) is always returned.
So even after writing to file and reading back, you don’t break the Singleton property.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



2. What is profiling in springboot application?

3. "This is Pawan"
create output : [sihT] [is] [nawaP]
using streams!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4. How to make a creation of bean based on a given flag!

5. Which design pattern u used in your project!

6. MVC , monolithic, microservices!

7. Which version of java you used!
